# Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project

## Licensing and Contribution Principles
* As part of its Open Source Licensing Project, Fannie Mae makes selected proprietary software developments (“Works”) publicly available and licensed to all under the Apache License v.2.0 (“Apache License”).
* To enhance the features and quality of the Works, Fannie Mae invites external developers (“Contributors”) to share with Fannie Mae proposed improvements and suggestions (“Contributions”).
* In order for Contributors to preserve proprietary rights in their Contributions, for Fannie Mae to incorporate the Contributions in its Works or create Derivative Works based on the Contributions, and to perpetuate the Open Source nature of the Works, Contributors license their Contributions to Fannie Mae under the Apache License.
* For the purpose of clarifying the rights and license under the intellectual property rights embedded in a Contribution, Fannie Mae asks Contributors to agree to the Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement, reproduced below, which documents a Contributor’s agreement to the contractual construct described in this document. 
* In furtherance of its Open Source Licensing Project, Fannie Mae currently relies on the GitHub platform; for a Contribution to be taken into consideration by Fannie Mae, Contributors must agree to and comply with the GitHub Terms of Services in force at the time of their Contribution, including the principles, terms and conditions of the GitHub Acceptable Use Policy. Fannie Mae reserves the right to reject Contributions which, and exclude Contributors from the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project who, do not comply with the GitHub Terms of Services, or similar terms of a successor platform.

## Terms and Conditions of the Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement
***
Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement Version 01.00 (March 2017) - Terms and Conditions: By submitting a Contribution to Fannie Mae in support of the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project, Contributor hereby agrees and acknowledges that: (i) the Contribution is licensed hereunder to Fannie Mae under the terms and conditions of the Apache License current at the time of the submission as published by the Apache Software Foundation (“Apache License”), incorporated herein by reference, with Fannie Mae as the Legal Entity exercising permissions granted both by this Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement and the Apache License; (ii) Contributor’s use of the GitHub platform in connection with the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project does and will conform with GitHub Terms of Services in effect at the time of the submission, including but not limited to the GitHub Acceptable Use Policy, which GitHub Terms of Services are incorporated herein by reference; (iii) Fannie Mae has no obligation to incorporate or otherwise use a Contribution; (iv) Fannie Mae may suspend, interrupt or cease to maintain any or all elements of its Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project in its sole discretion, with or without notice, including changing the support platform in which case the terms and conditions of that successor platform shall control; (iv) Fannie Mae may amend the terms and conditions of this Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement, which amendment shall be effective and binding as between Fannie Mae and Contributor upon publication by Fannie Mae, provided that such changes do not materially affect the licensing of the Contribution by Contributor or the licensing of the Work by Fannie Mae under the Apache License; (v) the capitalized terms in this Open Source Contribution Agreement are defined either in the Apache License or the GitHub Terms of Services, as applicable, and to be construed accordingly hereunder for purposes of this Fannie Mae Open source Contribution Agreement. Contributor further represents and warrants that Contributor has full authority to enter into this Open Source Contribution Agreement and to submit the Contribution to the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project.
***

## Frequently Asked Questions
### Q1.	What are the definitions of a Work, a Derivative Work, a Contribution, a Contributor, etc.?
For convenience and alignment with industry standards, these terms are those already defined in the Apache License available here. The GitHub Acceptable Use Policy is available here.
### Q2.	As a Contributor, why do I need to enter into an Open Source Contribution Agreement with Fannie Mae?
The Fannie Mae Open Source Contribution Agreement documents:
* Fannie Mae’s commitment to respecting a Contributor’s intellectual property rights in the Contributor’s Contribution, in conformance with and by referencing the Apache License;
* A Contributor’s consent to Fannie Mae using the Contribution to enhance a Work and distributing Derivative Works based upon the Contribution, in conformance with and by referencing the Apache License;
* A Contributor’s consent to contributing to the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project in conformance with industry standard rules of behavior by referencing the GitHub Acceptable Use Policy, available here.
### Q3.	How to submit a Contribution already licensed under a non-Apache License?
The intent of the Fannie Mae Open Source Licensing Project is to foster open innovation and ease of industry adoption, hence its reliance on the Apache License. For Contributions previously licensed by Contributors to the open source community under a different license or under a commercial license, Fannie Mae will consider other compatible license or agreement between Fannie Mae and the Contributor as agreed upon in writing by Fannie Mae, on a case-by-case basis. Contact [contact] with inquiries.
### Q4.	As a Contributor, will I or my employer be recognized in the release of the Work incorporating my Contribution? 
Yes, in conformance with the Apache License’s provisions on redistribution, the NOTICE text file will incorporate an attribution notice.

